Google Data Analytics Certificate - Capstone - Case Study 1 - Cyclistic Bike

1. Introduction
This is a case study to complete the Google Data Analytics Certificate program. 
Cyclistic Bike is a bike sharing company, the company is aiming to increase its annual subsciptions as those are believed to be more profitable from financial sources, the ambition Design a marketing strategy aiming to convert casual riders into annual members. In order to maximize the benefit of this marketing strategy, we will need to explore 3 main topics:
How do members differ in behavior from casual riders
Why would casual riders buy an annual subscription 
How can Cyclistic Bike as a company use digital media to influence casual riders.

2. Task
In this presentation, we will focus more on the first topic analyzing the different behaviors between member and casual riders. 

3. Data Info
Information on the Data Used
This case study sheds the light on the different behaviors between members and casual users by analyzing data that have the following characteristics:
Data records of bike trips in the past year have been used, the data is split in 4 files, 1 for each quarter.
The data used has been made available by Motivate International Inc. under this license.
Data are stored in a shared folder where only members of the working team are granted access.


4. Data Manipulation
A total of 3,879,822 bike trips have been analyzed.  4 files aggregated into 1 file and few data manipulation have been applied to ensure data consistency:
R Programming has been used as it is the most efficient tool for this size of data and the required manipulation
Column names have been unified between the 4 files.
Added few columns showing the trip duration and day of week, Month and year
Removed lines with negative trip duration (bike maintenance trips to HQ). 
Unified subscription type (subscriber & member = member, casual & customer = casual) 

5. Tools Used
In the analysis of this data, first R Programming Console was used to do basic analysis and to compile the 4 large files in one, while some graphics was possible to be done using R Programming, I used also Public Tableau to plot more graphic scenarios including external data sources as well.

